Zooming back out.
So all of this exploration into iteration
has been also kind of an exploration of
the details of the object system,
let's say, within JavaScript.
And what we've been doing is
assigning properties to objects and
then passing those objects around.
And so again, we're kind of in the domain
of object-oriented programming,
but the question came up before and
comes up a lot is, but
where are the classes in JavaScript?
How do I define the blueprint for
an object.
And that is what our next order of
business is to explore classy jazz.
And I don't just mean in
the Tuxedo Pooh sense,
I also mean in the sense
of the class definition,
which we can use with our friend,
the new operator.
Okay, so the new operator basically gives
us a new instance of a particular object.
And again,
type is used in the [LAUGH] loosey-goosey
JavaScript sense of the word,
which essentially is a special keyword
that's looking for a constructor function.
Which some languages have an init or
other names of stuff.
[LAUGH] And so in JavaScript,
we're calling them constructors,
which is essentially a term
borrowed from the OOP world.
And so in a constructor, and
you can just define any old
function to be a constructor.
If you use the this keyword,
which personally,
fun fact,
my least favorite word in JavaScript.
[LAUGH] And that's why we haven't
been talking about it too much yet,
but here we go, we're thising it up.
This keyword refers to
this objectish here.
Now, what exactly that evaluates to
depends a lot on a lot of things,
there's all these rules, Kyle Simpson
has great info on it, go listen to him.
We're gonna be trying to keep our brains
as functioning as they possibly can and
just talk about the practicalities
of how we can work with it.
So when we use this.img=img,
we're essentially assigning
whatever the value was of image
to a property on the thing
created when you call this
function with the new keyword.
So that if we call a new meme, but
we're passing in a regularPooh.jpg,
and the text next to
him is using functions,
we've got a kind of object-y function,
this capital M meme.
And we use the capital M like with date,
and object, and so on and so forth.
Kind of convention wise as a way to say,
this is a thing that you can construct.
So we can do new meme.
And then I can capture that value
in a good old variable like Pooh.
And I'll get out the values like
pooh.image is regularPoohImg,
or [COUGH] pooh.text is using functions.
And if I try to access an object
that wasn't initialized,
like fancy, I don't get it,
it's undefined.
Like everything else
that is the complement of
the things I have defined, okay.
So, now, relatively recently again,
in JavaScript,
we have a class keyword which
gives us the opportunity
to write code that looks
more like what we're used to
if we are coming from
a classical object-oriented
language like Java or
a language like Python, let's say.
So lots of different languages
have this kind of class vibe,
little classy vibes for us.
Okay, so this is maybe slightly different.
As with everything in JavaScript, there's
even a few different ways that you can
kind of structure your class definitions.
But essentially, this gives us
a little bit more fanciness to
how we can declare custom object kinds,
I should really be saying.
So in this case, I've got an analogous
to my meme, I have a ClassyMeme.
And again,
we use the convention of the capitals.
We have class, ClassyMeme, curlies,
similar to how we would use function.
And then we can, if we want to,
declare some properties that
we expect this object to have.
And we could even assign
them default values so
that we can, Access things by default.
For example,
the fanciness of this object is just gonna
be assumed to be true cuz it's classy.
It's a ClassyMeme, it's not just any old
meme, it's Pooh in a tuxedo, all right?
So [LAUGH] we've got a constructor
function that is named constructor,
that takes in whatever those arguments
are that we need for the new instance.
And basically does the same thing
as our function from before.
And we can also define other functions in
here that end up as methods on the object.
For example, the classyPooh can ask, I beg
your pardon, do you have any Grey Poupon?
If anybody remembers that very,
very old commercial, okay,
[LAUGH] that ran in the US for,
I don't know, 30 years ago?
[LAUGH] So, now instead of Pooh,
we have ooh.
And ooh is going to be a new ClassyMeme
with fancyPooh and using classes.
And now is ooh fancy?
Why, yes, it is.
Even though we didn't pass
in a Boolean value that
got assigned to the fancy property,
in our class declaration,
we can put this default
value at the beginning to
make sure that if there isn't a override.
For example, ClassyMeme that just,
for some reason, fell from grace and
now is just not gonna be let into
the exclusive clubs into the dive bars or
I'm hanging out,
we're gonna see each other there.
Anyway, if we have a a override,
we can set it, but
we can have these default values.
And so now, I can call ooh.fancy, and
it's true, and I have this method,
.begPardon, which doesn't
look a whole lot different
than if we had it be an additional
property on the object.
But essentially,
it's just a new syntactic way
that we can make these fancy,
constructible object.